Well, today we have the very great privilege to get acquainted with five faithful Christian women who share something unique.
Each one was married to a member of the governing body who has now gone on to his heavenly reward.
There are nine such dear faithful sisters with us at Bethel.
Sisters Lucille Henshel, Audrey Hyde, Margaret Klein and Charlotte Schroeder could not be with us today for this interview.
We treasure their faithful example as well.
Now these sisters had a very demanding schedule while supporting their husbands in their work.
But what were some of the blessings that they enjoyed?
Let's find out.
So let's begin with Sister Sydney Barber.
Sister Barber, could you tell us how you began in the full-time ministry?
Well, I was blessed to have parents who were faithful and diligent and they raised me with the idea that full-time service was to be my career.
However, when I got out of school, I was offered a pretty good job that I really enjoyed.
I took it and then thought about what reasons could I give to Jehovah while I was working full-time and not pioneering.
Well, of course, I couldn't come up with any reasons and so I knew I had to quit this job, which I did.
And the five years later, I was invited to Gilead and that's where I met my husband.
All right, so we understand it was in 1956 that you married for the Kerry Barber.
Can you tell us a little bit about some of his outstanding qualities?
Well, first thing that attracted me to him was that he already had a long history in the full-time service.
He had gone to Bethel in 1923, some 30 years before that.
So I knew I had to marry, if I was going to marry, I had to marry someone with the same goal of full-time service.
And then he was easygoing.
He didn't get easily excited or upset about things.
He had a marvelous sense of humor.
And all of this helped me a great deal because the very day after we were married, we started in the circuit work.
And then for the next 22 years, I lived out of a suitcase, lived in the homes of the brothers and moved every week.
Wonderful. Wow.
That sounds like a demanding schedule, Sister Barber, but of course there were blessings.
Oh, there were many blessings.
Although at times I did feel very sorry for myself, but the blessings and the happiness, the joys were way far outweighed and he difficulties.
One of the joys was to find interested people in the service and then find years later that whole extended families had come into the truth from that person that I contacted.
Then when we came to Bethel, we did more international travel.
Now often we went to maybe an exotic country, but we only saw the road from the airport to the branch and back again.
And we didn't see the tourist attractions that most people would go to see.
But we did see the desirable things, the precious things of the nations.
And that is Jehovah's people.
It was such a thrill to go to a country like Myanmar and there meet perhaps sisters from the chin hills, little sisters that had learned the truth back in their own language,
the way out in the sticks you might say, or to go to the Andes and meet a little catch who a speaking brother.
And to know that these are part of our family, that they're worshiping Jehovah.
It's always been dear to my heart.
Very nice.
Well now Sister Barber, as you look back, what is it that you especially treasure?
Well, I'm very thankful that I was married to one of Christ's brothers.
Just to hear his expressions on spiritual matters and to hear his appreciation for his service to Jehovah.
He was a humble man and he didn't speak private or publicly about being one of the anointed.
But privately he expressed great awe of that calling and great appreciation for it.
So I'm very thankful that I was able to have 51 years of marriage with him.
Thank you so much, Sister Barber.
Well, next on our program is Dear Sister Melba Berry.
Sister Berry, we'd like to know a little bit about how you got into the truth and how you started full-time service, please.
Well, I'm an Australian lassie born and raised in Australia.
Way down there in 1935, my mother accepted the truth and the brother that was going from door to door when he met her.
So being the eldest of three girls, I happened to be the only one that showed any interest and accepted the truth.
And that was I was baptized in 1939.
But in the small local congregation where I served, I was appointed as the company servant since no qualified brothers were available.
Brothers were assigned from Bethel to give talks in the congregation.
And so one brother came to the congregation for such an assignment.
And when he returned to Bethel, he told his buddy Lloyd Barry to come out to the congregation, give a talk and to look me over.
Eventually he came. Meanwhile, I applied to be a pioneer but was accepted to Bethel in Sydney in September 1939.
So began my 72 years of full-time service.
Beautiful. Well, then in 1942, you married that brother who came to check you out.
What were some of his outstanding qualities, Sister Berry?
Well, he truly loved you over and the brothers. He was serious, he had a kind and courageous spiritual man.
But I thought a spiritual giant since I was such an immature person at that time.
And I thought I needed someone to help me get through him again that was so close at that time.
And Lloyd was a very decisive person.
And when he'd learned the truth in his teenage years, he came to appreciate that serving Jehovah is a cause to lifelong success.
And so he began full-time service to Jehovah in January 1939.
And he made it the center of his life. I liked that about him and of course he was handsome, he was the best.
Now Sister Berry, of course, you had this same very demanding schedule, but what were some of the blessings?
The Christian life must be in submission to her husband.
And when he's busy in theocratic activities, she also has to be flexible.
For example, we were called to the 11th class of Gilead in 1948 and were assigned to Japan.
During our very first months in Japan, Lloyd and I were assigned to separate congregations in opposite parts of the city of Kobe.
We had so few publishers that we all spread out each going our separate ways to get the territory worked.
When we arrived, there were just three Japanese witnesses in the whole country.
Our language was very limited and hardly anyone understood English but Jehovah blessed our efforts.
In fact, one woman I met on my first day preaching, she accepted the truth and served Jehovah faithfully for 50 years as a pioneer.
But in time, more missionaries came to help and about nine years we had 1,000 publishers or so.
In 1975, we were up to 33,000 publishers.
But in 1995, over 200,000, that was a rich blessing.
A wonderful blessing. Well, Sister Barry, as you look back, is there a memory that you especially treasure?
Yes, there is one that touched me very much for the last 24 years of his life.
Lloyd was used extensively for conventions and zone work.
And in that time, we traveled together to some 80 countries.
One highlight that especially treasure is that of the District Convention in Cuba in 1998.
After each talk, the dear brothers and sisters actually all stood up and gave each speaker standing ovation, clapping their hands vigorously over their heads.
Such happiness and gratitude and joy for Jehovah's provisions left a very lasting impression on me and I'll never forget it.
So over the years, we could see how Jehovah blessed us in bulltime service.
And we found much joy in that.
So it has been a treasure and a great privilege to have lived alive of nearly 60 years with such a devoted brother and a faithful servant of Jehovah.
And another treasure and privilege to continue serving Jehovah in my advanced age, I keep trying with Jehovah's help.
I think you're succeeding, Sister Barry. Thank you so much.
Next, we have the privilege to interview Sister Melita Jarris.
Sister Jarris, we understand that you're from Canada. So please tell us about your early days in the truth there.
Well, I was six years old when my parents learned the truth after they read the booklet, Where Are The Dead?
Reading that booklet was all that it took my mother and dad to learn the truth about what happened to their first son who had died in the hospital.
And my relatives were fiercely opposed to my parents becoming Jehovah's witnesses.
However, they did not waver.
We left Saskatchewan to go to British Columbia.
And that's when us children read that had the wonderful opportunity to participate in the meetings in English and also go out in the service and comments at the meetings, making comments at the meetings.
But all of a sudden, no meetings and no service. How's the house work? The band came on.
And we were still young. So immediately announcements were made, we're going to go from door to door.
And they paused and they said, but only with the Bible was us children. That was good for us.
As young people learned to use the Bible from door to door. And that's when I really was convinced that I wanted to become a pioneer.
Fascinating. Well, then in 1956, you married brothers, Theodore Jaros. What were some of his outstanding qualities, Mr. Jaros?
Well, he was 13 when he started to study the Bible and with the family. But the family didn't want to continue. So he did.
And none of them ever came into the truth of his family. However, he started pioneering the 17 at 20 became a special pioneer.
And at 20, he went to Gilead. It was invited to go to Gilead. And he was in the traveling work when he was 21.
I was hearing a lot about this Ted Jaros. So he had fine reputation. It didn't take me long to appreciate that his goals involved around serving your whole soul. And that was my goal.
As we got to know each other, I learned that brother Jaros was very dedicated and serious in his devotion to serve Jehovah.
And first, I appreciated these things. And I found out that he was very serious in his devotion, very kind, friendly. Brothers seemed to be very friendly with him and he with them.
And he became friendly with me. I'd rather appreciate that.
Well, it's just a joke. I was very glad to become his wife.
Very good. Well, now, you had this very, very busy schedule too. But what were the blessings?
Well, eight weeks after we were married, we got a brother nor assigned us to the traveling work, starting with the area in Arkansas.
It was a good thing I was a country girl. I knew what an outhouse was. And we had quite a few of those.
However, for the next 19 years, we lived with friends in different homes each week, of course.
And it was sometimes little rough, but it was then discomforts weren't that bad.
But we had such wonderful experiences in the ministry that it made up for everything.
And my husband in 1974 was invited to become a member of the governing body.
And so we were going to live in Bethel. That was my first home after 19 years, and I love it.
Of course, my husband had many demanding schedules, but we were always together for morning worship, lunch, and dinner.
And since he was often had to work overtime, I've had much to do as far as my spiritualality at home and as well as duties that I had to perform.
I got busy with my spiritual things, but we were always had time together and I appreciated that.
In fact, 54 and a half years, I'm very grateful for it.
So, Sister Jarrah's now, as you look back through all those years, what is it that you especially treasure?
Well, I treasure those 54 and a half years for the reason that we spent together serving our living God.
It was a blessing to take care of one of Jehovah's sons by being a wife to him.
And of course, it took a power beyond what is normal to see that I met his knees and fulfilled them.
I also treasure that I had the privilege of going to with my husband on many zone visits.
And to see the joy that it brought him to serve our brothers in many lands, especially in bands under band, like, for instance, Russia, Ukraine,
and Poland.
Each of these countries was like home to us.
We were always in a family.
We just went from the airport to the branch or wherever.
And we enjoyed having that association together.
So, these memories bring me much happiness and contentment now.
And I'm grateful to Jehovah for them and thank him that he still gives me the power beyond what is normal to continue to serve here in Bethlehem.
What I can, that I'm assigned to.
Thank you so much, Mr. Chair.
Well, next on our program, we have Sister Edith Souter and Sister Souter.
We'd like to know how you got started in the full-time ministry, please.
Well, I was raised in a truth and my parents always took us to all the meetings and the conventions.
And my father always talked to us about the truth at the supper table and we had to be there.
And as we grew older, we were out in a service every Saturday and Sunday.
The service was not easy then because the war was on and mobs would form and they would run us out of town.
But they never hurt us.
I think they were more afraid than we were.
And at the convention in 1946, pioneering was stress.
And that's when I decided that's what I wanted to do.
So I started pioneering October 1946.
Well, now Sister Souter, we understand it was 1956 when you married by the grant Souter.
Can you tell us about some of his outstanding qualities?
Well, he was very kind, caring person.
And he was very generous, always wanting to help someone in need.
And he began full-time service in 1928.
He was a very hard worker.
He was very loyal to Jehovah in his organization.
And he really loved Bethel as I do.
And he never complained and he too, he had a good sense of humor also.
He very serious about his assignments at Bethel.
Well, now you had this demanding schedule as well as the other sisters.
What were the blessings that you enjoyed?
Well, we had many blessings. I had many blessings of course.
And I especially enjoyed traveling with my husband to different branches and working the branches with the sisters there.
See how they hated the work, different in other countries.
And then I, in the ministry, that was a great joy to me to go out in the ministry with some missionaries and see how they did the work.
And I really appreciated the work my husband was doing and was for Jehovah.
And when he was very busy, I would find things to do that I never had time to do.
I never had time to do it any any time because of the busy schedule that he had and I had.
And that kept me very busy too.
So also we found, but he did find time for me too.
And I really appreciated that.
That's very touching.
Sister Souter, is there a memory that you particularly treasure?
Oh, yes. I really enjoyed this one.
Grant was scheduled to give a talk at the Cadise prison in Spain where a hundred brothers were incarcerated for their neutrality.
But the officials said no.
So, but we got there two days early and the brothers said, well, let's try it.
So we went into the prison as visitors.
And the brothers have discovered in their workshop an unused door that led into their dormitory.
It was hidden behind wallpaper.
So the brothers decided to camouflage the door completely by covering it with a backless cover.
So you could step into the cover door, open the door behind and enter the dormitory.
And once we were in the prison, we were invited to visit the workshop.
And in this workshop, we stepped into the cupboard and through the door.
And here there were a hundred brothers waiting to see him.
So he was able to give the talk to them.
They were so excited to have a member of the governing body visit them in prison.
He was so heartwarming, so exciting.
Well, you know, my life in full-time service has been a very happy one.
Even though there were hardships and there were also challenges.
And I appreciate so much the priorities of serving it, having served the Bethel with my husband.
And I still love and I'm happy to be at Bethel serving Jehovah.
Thank you so much, Sister Serving.
So now we have the pleasure to get acquainted with Sister Marina Sidlik.
And Sister Sidlik, would you tell us about how you got started in the full-time service?
Well, my parents started studying the Bible in the mid-50s.
And my mom gave my sister and me our first few studies in the Let God Be True Book in the kitchen dining room of our home.
My first day in field service was when I was 10 years old.
And from that first day, I still remember the big smile on the face of the anointed brother that was taking us out.
He was a special pioneer.
And it soon became evident to me that the happiest people are those in the full-time work.
In time, my dad, my sister and I were all baptized.
And then about 10 years after our first initial contact with the truth,
Dan Sidlik started visiting our family.
And it was due to long conversations around our dinner table during his visits
that my mom saw the beauty of the truth and began making it her own.
I pioneered in later teenage years without a partner,
which meant that after a good call there was no one to share the joys with, except Jehovah, of course.
And so my relationship with Jehovah really blossomed during that time.
I have some nice memories from London Bethel where I waited through the immigration process to come to the US.
I sat at Brethren's sister bar's table.
And my London Bethel roommate, Joey Arrim and I,
have kept up our friendship to this day.
We still have a little phone call each Saturday morning before I leave for Field Service.
It's wonderful.
Well, we understand now in 1970, who married Brother Daniel Sidlik,
can you tell us some of his outstanding qualities?
Well, Dan was known for his genuine love of people,
his great love of Jehovah and the truth and his innate love of life.
That combination really gave me a wonderful life to live with him
and have many memories, of course, from it.
But some of the memories that treasure our conversations after the supper meal,
sometimes we'd sit and talk about a Bible topic.
And it's those spiritual conversations that I missed to this day.
It's understandable.
Now, of course, you had a demanding schedule, but there were blessings.
What were those, Sister Sidlik?
Yes, the schedule was demanding and for a rather reticent person like myself,
I found the crowds and the attention overwhelming.
But the wonderful friendships we made with some brothers and sisters around the world
are what I treasure to this day.
Now, when I think of a country like France or Poland or China,
it's not the topography of the country that comes to mind,
but the faces of the dear brothers there.
For example, in Poland, we went there when it was still in Japan,
and we visited the brothers in their homes.
But then years later, to go back and see those same brothers
in their beautiful new branch and assembly halls.
Well, I was just so happy for them.
Indeed.
When I was you look back, Sister Sidlik, at this rich life,
is there a memory that you particularly treasure that you'd like to share with us?
Well, this may be an unusual memory to treasure,
but recalling it now may help some other sisters.
It was when Dan was in hospital,
one of those many days when I was trying to help him with something.
And he began grumbling, almost fighting me.
So I just said, babe, I know this has been terribly hard
and you've been so brave and you've endured so much already.
But just please hang in there a bit longer.
And immediately he softened and he stopped resisting.
He never resisted me like that again.
He just needed that word of commendation
and just a little bit of kindness like that,
approval like that.
Sisters often give compliments to other sisters
and receive compliments.
It's just a little pleasant moment in the day.
It boils us up. It's a little something we share.
But that's not the way things work among brothers.
And it may seem that husbands who give talks and travel
with the society get enough compliments and praise.
But that praise is a very limited value to a husband
compared to a word of approval from his wife,
a word of commendation from his wife.
And it's just as Paul said about a married man,
how he's anxious to gain the approval of his wife.
And so without commendation from a husband,
a husband is missing a little moment of being void up,
of being appreciated.
It's a simple gift a wife can give a husband.
And as we know from James words,
every good gift and every perfect present
comes from above from the Father of Celestial Lights.
Yes, thank you so much, Sister Siddler,
for sharing that with us.
Well, how heartwarming to learn how each of you,
unselfishly and lovingly supported your husbands
and Jehovah's service and how richly you were blessed
for doing so.
Your fine example as faithful Christian women
is a gift to all of us.
And we thank you so much for sharing your beautiful memories
with us today.